



You said:
Tell me about rhasspy

ChatGPT said:

https://community.rhasspy.org/uploads/default/original/1X/26d03531b18aa5a7c37bf2d1b61587b2ca7ffcc7.png

https://community.rhasspy.org/uploads/default/original/2X/4/497544d99654eb272ea6a994af0ce71c02ce2423.jpeg

https://community.rhasspy.org/uploads/default/original/2X/d/d29d105b34f77fb2a73d811aad609834e4a34631.jpeg
4
Rhasspy is a fully local, offline-first voice assistant framework designed for Home Assistant–style smart homes.

Core purpose
Local speech control without cloud dependency. Wake word → speech-to-text → intent parsing → JSON events → home automation.

Architecture
Modular pipeline. Each stage is replaceable.

Wake word
Porcupine, Snowboy (deprecated), Precise.

STT (speech-to-text)
Kaldi, Vosk, Pocketsphinx.

NLU / intent parsing
Grammar-based (sentences.ini), not LLM-based. Deterministic.

TTS (text-to-speech)
eSpeak, MaryTTS, Festival.

Event output
JSON over MQTT, HTTP, or WebSocket.

Key properties
100% offline operation

Deterministic latency (sub-second on modest hardware)

No hallucination risk

Explicit grammars instead of probabilistic language modeling

Designed for Raspberry Pi–class devices

Strengths
Extremely fast reaction time

Predictable behavior

Low hardware requirements

Strong Home Assistant integration via MQTT

Multi-room “satellite” microphones supported

Limitations
No free-form conversation

No reasoning or contextual dialogue

Grammar authoring required

Static intent space unless regenerated

Typical deployment
Central Rhasspy server on x86 or Raspberry Pi

Multiple satellite nodes (mic + speaker)

Home Assistant listening to intents

Automations triggered by structured JSON

Example intent output
{
  "intent": {
    "name": "TurnLightOn",
    "confidence": 1.0
  },
  "slots": {
    "room": "kitchen"
  }
}
Comparison to LLM-based assistants
Rhasspy: command router

LLMs: interpretation and reasoning layer

Modern setups often place Rhasspy before an LLM:
Rhasspy handles wake word + STT → LLM refines intent → automation executes.

Project status
Community-maintained. Stable but not rapidly evolving. Still widely used in privacy-focused smart homes.

Bottom line: Rhasspy is a low-latency, deterministic voice command engine, not a conversational AI. Ideal as a front-end control layer in a local smart home stack.


You said:
can i integrate that into my jarvis project? https://jarvis-home-ai.netlify.app/ https://github.com/7ucid7ibra/jarvis-voice-assistant Because the goal is to have an LLM that can do more, but also a big part of the goal is to have it running fast and reliably. So I was wondering if we can tie specific code words or commands into Raspi so it goes fast, and it works even if the LLM is down for some reason, which it shouldn't be, but I'm just saying it should have a reliable, not so smart layer that just works and is fast. 

ChatGPT said:

Thought for 20s
Yes. Rhasspy fits exactly as the “fast + reliable” deterministic layer in front of your current LLM pipeline.

Your current stack (from your README/site) is: local STT (Faster-Whisper), local LLM via Ollama, and Home Assistant control via authenticated HTTP calls. 

Rhasspy adds: wake word + command grammar + intent emission (MQTT Hermes or HA events) with predictable latency and no LLM dependency. 

Target architecture: “two-lane voice”
Lane A (fast, always works)
Rhasspy on Raspberry Pi (or multiple “satellites”) handles:

wake word

STT

intent recognition via fixed grammars

emits intent → Home Assistant executes automation directly

If Jarvis/LLM is down, this lane still controls lights/scenes/critical routines.

Lane B (smart, flexible)
Anything not matching a fixed command gets routed to your Jarvis app (Mac Studio/local) for:

open-ended requests

multi-step reasoning

complex tool routing (your intent/action/response agents)

Integration patterns that work with your project
Pattern 1 — Rhasspy → Home Assistant (fallback guaranteed)
Rhasspy publishes intents over MQTT (Hermes protocol), and Home Assistant can listen and run intent scripts/automations. 

Alternative: Rhasspy can send events directly to Home Assistant over its REST API (“Send events to Home Assistant”). 

Result: the “dumb layer” is entirely inside HA automations, independent of Jarvis.

Pattern 2 — Rhasspy intents → Jarvis “Action Agent” (bypass LLM for critical commands)
Jarvis subscribes to Rhasspy MQTT intents and immediately calls the Home Assistant API (the same way your app already does). 

This keeps your existing HA-call code path, but removes LLM from the loop for “known” commands.

Pattern 3 — Rhasspy as router: either (A) HA automation or (B) “AskJarvis” passthrough
Define a catch-all intent like AskJarvis that captures the raw text, then:

publish it to Jarvis over MQTT/HTTP

Jarvis runs the LLM pipeline

optional: Jarvis sends a TTS response back (either via Jarvis’ own Piper/macOS voice, or via HA media player)

This gives you strict deterministic commands plus free-form fallback.

Minimal concrete implementation blueprint
1) Put Rhasspy on the Pi as the always-on “voice front-end”
Wake word + mic handling lives on Pi (cheap to keep always listening).

Your Mac Studio stays the “brain” for LLM.

2) Define “critical commands” as Rhasspy grammars
Examples: lights on/off, scenes, emergency/off, “good night”, “stop”, etc.
Rhasspy intent handling is designed around explicit intents with slots. 

3) Wire intents to HA (recommended for true fallback)
Rhasspy → MQTT Hermes

Home Assistant reacts to intents (snips/Hermes-style) and executes automations/scripts. 

4) Add a Jarvis bridge for non-critical or “complex” requests
Rhasspy emits AskJarvis(text=...) when no command matches

Jarvis receives and runs your existing multi-agent routing, then calls HA via API as you already do. 

What you gain
Sub-second “light switch” behavior for common commands

Deterministic reliability (no hallucination, no model crash impact)

Clear separation: safety/critical controls vs. “smart” requests

What changes in your repo
Small, isolated additions:

MQTT client subscriber (if you choose Pattern 2 or 3)

“fast-path” command whitelist that bypasses LLM

optional: “AskJarvis” endpoint (HTTP or MQTT topic) to accept Rhasspy text payloads


You said:
You mentioned that Raspi would then run on a Raspberry Pi or multiple satellites, but I was thinking of integrating it into my Jarvis app. I'm not sure how to integrate it into Home Assistant directly, but that would also make it a completely separate system, basically a local Alexa. But we are already using Home Assistant Voice Preview Edition with Whisper and Piper, but it's honestly working very, very shitty, if at all. It always slightly misunderstands and then doesn't know what to do. When I say something like table lamp, it would understand something like table lamper or something slightly off and will not understand what to do. So it is really not functional. When I was researching online, they said there is a Raspi Home Assistant integration, but using our current setup is apparently better and easier maintainable, but like I said, it's complete crap. So I was thinking... to rather do something like integrate it into the existing Jarvis app, so the app scans for the wake word. That's also how I could integrate the wake word into the Jarvis app since I have a toggle for it in the system settings or in the app settings, but it doesn't work yet. And then when the wake word is said, first, the input is filtered through Raspi and the commands, and if it doesn't fit to any of that, it gets sent to my LLM that then could maybe still just reply or maybe do a Home Assistant command, or maybe even we can integrate it in a way that we can then tell the LLM to add a command that will then be used by Raspi. That would be cool as well, so I could just integrate Raspi and then tell the AI to set a certain word as a Raspi voice command, and it will do it.

ChatGPT said:
Yes. You should not treat Rhasspy as a separate “Alexa system.”
You embed it as a deterministic intent engine inside your Jarvis stack.

What you are describing is a layered voice pipeline:

Wake word → STT → Fast command matcher (Rhasspy grammar) →
  (A) direct execution
  (B) fallback to LLM

That architecture is correct.

The Real Problem You’re Facing
Your current failure mode is not intelligence.
It is non-deterministic speech recognition + no grammar constraint.

Whisper hears:

“table lamp”

and outputs:

“table lamper”

Since your system expects an exact entity string, it fails.

This is a normal outcome of unconstrained STT.

Rhasspy fixes this by:

restricting vocabulary

using intent grammars

slot normalization

fuzzy matching inside a closed domain

It does not try to “understand the world.”
It matches structured phrases.

That is why it feels “reliable.”

Correct Architecture For Your Jarvis App
You do NOT install full Rhasspy as a server.

You extract its core idea:

Deterministic Intent Layer inside Jarvis
Instead of:

Wake word → Whisper → LLM → HA
You change to:

Wake word → STT → Intent Engine → 
    if match → HA
    else → LLM → HA
Rhasspy is essentially:

Wake word

STT

Grammar-based intent recognition

JSON output

You already have STT + LLM.
So you only need the grammar layer.

Clean Integration Strategy
1. Wake Word Inside Jarvis
Do NOT depend on HA Voice Preview.

Add wake word locally in Jarvis:

Options:

Porcupine (fast, stable)

OpenWakeWord (fully open)

Precise (Mycroft)

Wake word triggers recording.

2. Replace “Free Whisper → LLM” With “Constrained Command Parser First”
After STT text is produced:

Example:

raw_text = "turn on table lamper"
Instead of sending that to LLM immediately:

You run it through a deterministic command matcher.

This can be:

Option A — True Rhasspy Intent Engine (Hermes + MQTT)
Heavy, unnecessary.

Option B — Embedded Grammar Matcher (Better)
Implement:

predefined commands

slots

fuzzy entity matching (Levenshtein or rapidfuzz)

synonyms

Example:

COMMANDS = {
  "turn_on_light": {
     "phrases": [
        "turn on {device}",
        "switch on {device}"
     ],
     "entities": {
        "device": ["table lamp", "ceiling lamp", "kitchen light"]
     }
  }
}
Then:

normalize text

fuzzy match device names

execute immediately

This gives you Rhasspy reliability without running Rhasspy.

Why Not Use Full Rhasspy?
Because:

It duplicates STT

It duplicates wake word

It runs its own MQTT system

It adds architectural complexity

You don’t need the full daemon.

You need the deterministic intent model.

Advanced: Let LLM Extend The Grammar
This part is powerful.

You want:

“Jarvis, from now on when I say movie mode, activate living room scene.”

That is not Rhasspy native behavior.
But you can build it.

Flow:

LLM parses instruction.

LLM generates a new grammar entry.

You append it to a JSON command registry.

Save file.

Reload matcher.

Example registry:

{
  "movie mode": {
     "type": "scene",
     "target": "scene.living_room_movie"
  }
}
Now your deterministic layer evolves.

This makes the LLM a command designer, not runtime dependency.

Very powerful architecture.

Full Recommended Stack For You
Given your hardware (Mac Studio + Pi network):

On Mac (Jarvis Core)
Wake word engine

Faster-Whisper (small.en or medium)

Deterministic intent matcher

Ollama LLM

HA REST client

Command registry JSON

Optional Satellites
Just microphones streaming to Jarvis.

No Rhasspy server needed.

Why Your Current HA Voice Setup Feels Broken
Home Assistant Voice Preview:

Whisper running in generic mode

No constrained grammar

LLM-based intent matching

Entity names must match exactly

So minor STT drift → full failure.

Rhasspy avoids that by constraining vocabulary.

You can replicate that inside Jarvis without adding HA complexity.

Final Architecture Summary
Your Jarvis becomes:

Layer 1 — Wake word
Layer 2 — STT
Layer 3 — Deterministic intent engine (Rhasspy-style)
Layer 4 — LLM fallback
Layer 5 — Home Assistant execution

This gives:

sub-second light control

LLM optional

graceful degradation

self-extending command registry

no external dependency

That is the correct evolution path for your project.